[music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts,
radio, news. Joe, do you like Persian
food?
>> Yeah. Oh, yeah. Definitely.
>> Yeah. I make I'm very proud of this if I
say so myself. A mean gourmet sapsi. I
actually don't know if I'm pronouncing
it wrong, but supposedly it's the
Iranian national dish, and it's a sort
of like beef stew with spinach and a
bunch of different herbs in it. So, it's
really green and then with kidney beans,
it's delicious. And the thing I like
about it is you can make it and then
store it, freeze it, and it actually
gets better over the next week or so.
>> I This is my idea for a restaurant,
which is just like make food and then
put it in the fridge for overnight and
then [laughter] serve it cold cuz I
think like every dish is better like
after a night in the fridge somehow like
all the flavors come out. I was like,
why don't we just make this the default
eating? [music]
I did a deadlift.
>> I am both the most popular trader and
most successful trader at Citadel.
>> Feta's going viral.
>> Uh, barges.
>> This is an after school special. Except
>> I've decided I'm going to base my entire
personality going forward on campaigning
for a strategic pork reserve in the US.
>> Black gold.
>> These are the the important questions.
Is it robots taking over the world?
>> No, I think that like in a couple years
the AI will do a really good job of
making the Outlaws podcast. One day that
person will have the mandate of heaven.
>> How do I get more popular and
successful?
>> We do have
>> the perfect guest.
>> You're listening to lots more where we
catch up with friends about what's going
on right now.
>> Because even when Odd Lots is over,
there's always lots more.
>> And we really do have the perfect guest.
>> So, I'm a big fan of Iranian food. I
always wanted to go to Iran and actually
try it.
>> Yes. And it makes me sad that I haven't
been able to do it. And with, you know,
recent events, terrible events in Iran,
we've had anti-Islamic Republic protests
that have reportedly left thousands of
people dead. I'm not going to say the
specific estimate because it's changing
all the time. And also, there's not that
much transparency at the moment because
the government has shut down the entire
internet. But it's just sad.
>> Look, I know very little about Iran. I
also feel like in my professional career
there are multiple rounds of this
>> big protests etc. Is this the moment
regime change? And to your point which
you say like there is very little that I
trust when I see it reported. I am
extremely skeptical. Oh, tonight was the
biggest set of protests we've had in
years. There's never been a protest.
Look at which city this is. I'm sure
there are well-informed people talking
about this. I don't have the heristics
to know generally I don't know who is
well informed what is actually signal
versus what is noise but obviously yet
another sort of extraordinary
development unfolding here in uh 2026
>> ma what have you been hearing
>> so I agree that it's difficult really to
tell what are the actual facts for sure
there's been a lot of deaths and uh it's
horrible and it's tragic and it's
definitely in thousands of of of deaths
but at the same time, you know, there's
complete blackout. What works right now
is the actually outgoing landline calls
but with limited time. So, for example,
my one of my analysts who is actually in
London at the moment, he's able to speak
to his parents when they call him and
then the call gets interrupted quite
quickly, but at least he he can hear
from them. We weren't actually sure for
quite some time whether the stock market
was working or not because of the
blackout because it was not possible to
even to read any news from the official
news agencies in Iran.
>> So everything was down including from
what I've read including even like the
internal um domestic like an internet
network in Iran that is uh that is very
controlled. This was this was also down.
Even ATM stopped working for a moment.
uh I think just like a one day brief
moment cash transfers were working bank
transfers apparently the local you know
Uber equivalent called snap was working
all the time however GPS was not working
properly so it was difficult to locate
the driver and so on so exactly what you
said it's it's it's difficult to
understand exactly what is going on
>> so this is of course Matcha Voit he is
the CEO of Amtalon Capital which is a
fund that specializes in Iranian
equities and there aren't that many of
those ground.
>> I don't even know if there's a second
one.
>> Yeah. So, we enjoy talking to him and he
has really good insights into what is
actually happening on the ground in
Iran. The first question I should ask
directly is, is your team okay? Are they
safe and well, the people that you
actually have in the country?
>> Thank you for asking about that, Tracy.
We have uh we have a local team in
Thran, part of which is actually in
London at the moment. Now, analysts who
are in Tehran, who were in Tehran, they
left Thran a few days ago when the
protests were getting more intense to
smaller cities to their hometowns. So,
the last time we've heard from them was
a couple of days ago. At that time, they
were they were in a safe place. So, I
believe they're they're all fine.
>> I mean, just your intuition, let's
actually set aside the question of like,
is this a moment where the regime would
get toppled or something like that, etc.
Does this feel either quantitatively or
qualitatively different from various
episodes over the last two decades in
which suddenly the internet is looking
at fairly blurry videos of Iranian
protesters and asking like does this
feel different somehow?
>> Yes, it definitely does.
>> Okay. So first of all obviously looking
at you know the history it teaches you
not to get excited or to I don't know
hopeful for any meaningful changes.
However it does feel different and maybe
maybe two things could be interesting
here. First of all as you said Joe at
the beginning it's it's not the first
protest it's you know another protest
over the years. And if you look at
comparable situations for example Poland
Poland is always close uh to my heart.
I'm I'm Polish originally and Poland
when we were trying to get rid of the
Soviet Union it took 9 years and every
year there was a massive protest this
protest you know died and then uh you
know with very brutal reaction from from
the government. Then the next year there
was another protest. In the meantime
there was martial law with you know
military on the streets and so on. But
finally many things came together and
there was a tipping point at which
everything collapsed. Although it didn't
collapse actually it was it was a
negotiated transition to a different
regime. So you know the establishment
got a got an offramp to move on and it
was a peaceful negotiated transition.
Similar in South Africa based on what I
know I mean it was you know happening in
the 80s and then in the '90s uh there
were actual changes in Iran. The
situation is different because for many
reasons demographics have changed. So
now you have uh I believe around 93
million people out of which 50 million
is between you know 15 and 49 years old
like the active part of the population
and there are many more young people who
are educated who have you know access to
internet have their own aspirations and
they don't believe they can achieve
those aspirations in the current
environment and they also look at their
parents and they think that they just
wasted the whole generation, you know,
waiting and doing nothing. So, this
makes them more angry and also like more
decisive and confrontational. That's why
I think it's uh you know, the protests
were so intense and so widespread.
Another reason, another thing that's
changed is like you remember a few years
ago three uh 2022 uh there were in 23
there were protests around social
freedoms after um an Iranian girl
Maramini died and this was driven by
basically by social freedoms and and
mainly involved young people. Right now
is driven by economic difficulties and
this is this touches every every single
household in Iran. Yeah, I wanted to ask
you about precisely this because the I
don't want to say the cause of the
recent unrest, but certainly one of the
sparks seems to have been a further
collapse in the currency, even higher
inflation. And wasn't there something
about a bank as well? Um, a bank that
was going bust um supposedly with ties
to the regime. How much did financial
stress play into the current round of
civil unrest?
>> Well, 100% this was the main cause.
Look, the protest started on the Grand
Bazar in Tehran. So these uh bazaris, I
mean people who operate bazaars, they
many of them run like multi-million
dollar revenue companies there actually.
It's like this massive shopping mall
with tens of thousands of you know
smaller or bigger traders there and they
need stability to just you know do
business right. protesting revolution
like this is the last thing they would
think about but they are in a situation
you know where that many of them are
importers to import you need uh to be
able to obtain a hard currency to just
pay your supplier from Vietnam China
whoever it's it's impossible to obtain
to access hard currency or there's not
enough of it and that's obviously
because of sanctions because of
sanctions exports of Iran just went down
Iran is exporting oil only to China so
China's is dictating all the terms
including big discounts in the price
that they are paying but also the terms
of the payments. You know the China is
paying a big part of their payments are
in yuan and they and they arrive in bank
accounts in some Chinese banks. So Iran,
you know, the only thing Iran can do
with it is is to buy some Chinese goods
and and and what Iran needs is is to pay
for essential goods like, you know, some
food products or some medical products
that they need to import at at any cost.
And once they allocate all their hard
currency reserves to those essential
products, there is not much left for
other businesses. So this is one thing
that is difficult to run a business when
you cannot obtain currency, you have uh
you know inflation running wild. But on
the other hand, your consumers are
losing their purchasing power at an
extraordinary pace. So no one is buying
basically right. You have to spend on uh
you know eggs, milk and bread probably
you know more than 10% of your average
uh monthly salary. So it looks it looks
really difficult on the economic side.
>> Can I ask very quickly do you have a
sense of what the current exchange rate
actually is? because you know this is
one of the few currencies in the world
that we cannot look up on a Bloomberg
terminal.
>> Yeah, it's around 1.5 million realale
per $1, which means it went down uh
around 97 98% over the last decade and
around almost 50%
since before the war with Israel last
year. So over the last 7 months. So it's
really it's really falling fast. Oh, and
one more thing you asked about the bank.
Yes, actually there was a bank
collapsing in Iran just a few months
ago. I mean they formally recognized
that it should be nationalized and it's
extraordinary because the size of the
collapse it was so big that it actually
affected the budget of the country the
country budget for this year. So they
had to reduce subsidies and and just
change you know the expenditures of the
budget to make room for the amount that
they had to I think it was like $5
billion that they had to put into this
bank so that it doesn't you know
collapse. It was basically and it's
another it's another example that you
know makes people angry obviously
because it's it's it was a huge example
of corruption. So, you know, there was a
local well-connected entrepreneur who
was running a few construction companies
and it wasn't the case that, you know,
he called a few banks and asked for some
preferential loans. No, he set up a
bank, offered the highest interest rates
on the market. So, many people just put
their deposits into this bank and then
he was using those deposits to make
loans to his own companies.
>> I think it was like a majority of the
loans were to his own companies. He
built the biggest shopping mall in the
in the region, which was, you know, a
crazy idea from the beginning and many
things like this, right? So, another
example of thronism and corruption.
>> This is the shopping mall that's like as
big as the Pentagon or something.
>> Yeah. Twice as big. According I I read
the Wall Street Journal article, twice
as big as the Pentagon, this luxury
shopping mall in Iran suffering from
massive hyperinflation and all the
sorts. But I have to say starting your
own bank to then just fund your
construction company, a kind of a
brilliant idea. B, this is why bank
supervision and various things
>> is important
>> actually exist.
[music]
It's surreal to me this reality of here
is a country that right now is a de
facto information black hole. You
mentioned we don't know if the stock
market is trading. Here's a country on
earth and right now where we are in New
York or where you are in London, we
can't even answer the simple question,
is the stock market functioning right
now?
>> Yeah, exactly. So all the stories that I
that I hear is that the way people were
able to communicate is because someone
had access to a Starlink operating in
Iran or someone's friend was working at
a hospital and hospital had some access
to either the wide internet or some of
these local networks. So that's why also
it's it's not possible for the country
to keep the blackout at this scale and
intensity for too long because you know
the whole economy stops right actually
the administration of the countries is
not possible right without uh without
internet so it's it was it was sharp
intense but it has to be shortterm
because otherwise you know the country
will will just stop. what happens to
your portfolio in this particular
scenario, your investments.
>> So, the stock market seems to have been
stable over the last week. I don't see
the exact numbers yet in terms of, for
example, liquidity. And I and I suspect
that, you know, there was not much going
on because I'm not sure if even local
investors had a chance to were able to
put orders online, right? Maybe maybe it
was old school, you know, calling your
broker or going to your broker. So, it
was stable. So, so, so nothing actually
actually it went up by 4% and the
currency was stable too. The currency is
easier to to manipulate by by the
central bank using some reserves
especially when when there is low
liquidity. So, I think what will be more
interesting is the next few weeks. So,
for example, what happened last year
after the war when there was a war
between Iran and Israel in June, the
stock market was shut down for around
two weeks. After it reopened, the prices
didn't change much. But then local
investors, mainly retail investors, this
uh retail driven market started selling
because they didn't have access to their
funds. So they started selling at any
price just to get money out. And there
was a massive selling pressure that
lasted from July until September. And
when the buyers saw a selling pressure
like this, so every day you can see the
queue of unfilled orders building up
that will go to the next day and the
next day and the next day. So people
just stopped buying as well obviously.
So the market went down like uh
irrespective of you know which stocks,
what quality, what valuation or whatever
just a massive sell-off which lasted two
three months and then it rebounded. So
um it went down like in dollar terms
from let's say index of I don't know 360
to 230. Yes, if I'm if I'm looking at at
this correctly. So let's say 36% in
dollar terms in just two and a half
months. The selling pressure then was
exhausted. All the selling all the sales
were were absorbed. valuations went down
to the one of the I think very close
levels to the like all-time lows in the
history of the of the Iranian stock
market which is around 20 years old. So,
you know, it's always cheap, right? But
this time it went, you know, below three
times uh net earnings a median median
for the market, right? So, you could
probably find stocks, you know, at two
times earnings. Then it rebounded, but
it's still around, you know, like three
and a half times earnings. So,
valuations are very much still driven by
war. So everything is priced for war,
right? So that's that's the sentiment
hasn't really recovered after the last
war and now we had protests. So
everything in Iran is priced for war
basically.
>> You know in the news obviously we hear
or I think we get a better grasp and
again I plead a lot of ignorance. This
not something I have a lot of
familiarity with but what the protesters
want and you hear about young people and
wanting more freedoms. Can you give a
sort of I don't know political economy
breakdown of like you know you don't
hear about the people who obviously
don't want regime change generally
speaking they we don't know much about
them or who they are. Who are the sort
of different factions socioeconomically
that and how they allocate to either
side sort of I guess a a class
understanding of the tensions. M h so
there's a big group of young people and
young people want freedom and
opportunities and like fair rules in the
economy basically there are older people
adults in larger cities which are more
liberal definitely than tean is a big
city it's like 12 million people
altogether and life in Thran looks
different to most other cities in Iran
with you know women no longer wearing
hijab perhaps it's much more open. It's
much more liberal. But also there is a
big group of people who are very very
religious and they support the
government that is also um there is a
religious government. So they the the
concept of Islamic republic is very
close close to their heart and they
support it and and it's part of their
religion and part of their traditions.
uh so in terms of you know the how they
observe religious holidays uh uh you
know going to mosque uh dressing in a in
a certain way and so on and now how does
this split I would say that uh probably
between 10 and 30% is the religious part
10 like very religious and just
listening to the to the prayer and you
know whatever political advice comes
from the mosque and so on 30% or let's
say a third of the society just being
religious and and supporting the um
Islamic Republic in the as as a
religious uh state. Just a small note
that it's an Islamic republic but very
tolerant of of other religions. I mean
all the churches work normally there
from um Jewish to Christian to
Zarustrian you know everyone is doing
his own thing in terms of religion in
Iran and it's and it's okay. So, and the
rest are people who want a modern open
state with the young including the young
people who want it fast basically and
and and want to be able to follow their
dreams and aspirations. So, so, so that
would be the breakdown.
>> So, I should just say we're recording
this on January 15th. The headlines are
coming pretty fast nowadays. So, who
knows what will happen by the time we
publish this episode in just 24 hours or
so. But the latest headline is that
tensions seem to have eased a little bit
with the US because the Iranian
government said they're not going to
kill any more people or told Trump
they're not going to execute more
people. How should we interpret that? Is
this all over or do you expect uh some
unrest to continue?
>> Well, it's hard to predict. It's it's
it's very unpredictable. I mean unrest
is difficult to predict the dynamics
around the unrest. Then you know the
government of Iran is difficult to
predict but you know the government of
the US is difficult to predict because
you know right now yesterday today
yesterday you had news you had news that
President Trump was saying that yes he
got information that you know killing
stopped so this is what he was you know
what he wanted to achieve so it looks
better the day before everyone thought
that you know they are getting ready to
strike Iran so I think those things can
change in 24 hours so it's it's it's
just impossible to predict the Only
thing I would I would say is that
because it does feel different this time
the scale of the protests and the
reasons of the protest and also the
government just can't spend you know
their way out of the problem. It's it's
the the financial situation is really
tough but some changes are likely. I'm
not saying that within the next few days
or weeks maybe it will take months but I
think it's just moving this direction.
So there are some changes that are
likely and many scenarios are possible.
I mean look at Venezuela. There was no
regime change there, right? I mean there
was a like again negotiated solution
with you know Maduro taken out and and
the rest of the uh government and
establishment just in place but but they
have to cooperate right. So there's
probably more than one scenario possible
uh for the future. What a world we live
in where civil unrest is uh becoming a
major investment theme. Thank you,
Matcha, for coming on Lots More. Really
appreciate another update from you.
>> Thank you for having me.
[music]
>> Lots More is produced by Carmen
Rodriguez and Dashel Bennett with help
from Moses Andam and Kale Brooks.
>> Our sound engineer is Blake Maples.
Please rate, review, and subscribe to
OddLotss and lots more on your favorite
podcast platforms.
>> And remember that Bloomberg subscribers
can listen to all our podcasts ad free
by connecting through Apple Podcasts.
Thanks for listening.